Season 3, Episode 1: "The Rickshank Rickdemption"	Juan Meza-León	Mike McMahan	April 1, 2017	RAM-301	0.68[12][b]
Rick is interrogated via a mind-computer link, inside a galactic federal prison. Summer and Morty attempt to rescue him but they are captured by SEAL Team Ricks, who take them to the Citadel of Ricks and decide to assassinate Rick. Back at the prison, Rick repeatedly switches bodies with both the federal agents and his aspiring assassins to reach the teleporter room of the Citadel of Ricks. He then teleports the entire Citadel into the federal prison, prompting a massive battle. Amid the confusion, Rick rescues Morty and Summer, and uses the Galactic Federation's mainframe to make its currency worthless. This causes the Federation to collapse and leave Earth. Rick, Morty, and Summer return home, where Jerry gives Beth an ultimatum to choose between him and Rick. Beth chooses Rick and the couple decide to get a divorce. Rick reveals to Morty that his ulterior motive was to become his de facto male influence and get revenge at Jerry for threatening to turn him in to the authorities. This escalates into a monologue, centered around Rick's desire to find more McDonald's Szechuan sauce, a discontinued promotional product for the film Mulan.

Post-credits scene: Tammy observes Birdperson's resurrection as a cyborg dubbed "Phoenixperson".

Season 3, Episode 2: "Rickmancing the Stone"	Dominic Polcino	Jane Becker	July 30, 2017	RAM-302	2.86[14]
Rick takes Morty and Summer to a post-apocalyptic version of Earth, where they are chased by a group of scavengers, known as Death Stalkers. Rick notices that the group is carrying a valuable rock of Isotope 322, so he and the kids join them in hope of stealing it. Summer falls in love with the Death Stalkers' leader, while Morty is given the strength of a giant arm, which takes him in search of its previous owner's killer. Rick leaves and replaces the kids with androids to fool Beth. When he returns, he helps the Death Stalkers use the Isotope to power a more advanced civilization. Summer does not like how the change softens the Death Stalkers, and she decides to follow Rick and Morty back home. Before leaving, Rick steals the isotope. The experience helps the kids overcome their parents' divorce. Summer reconciles with Jerry, and Morty realizes he must live his own life.

Post-credits scene: As Jerry receives his unemployment check, a wolf bullies him into handing it over. The wolf eats the check and regurgitates it.

Season 3, Episode 3: "Pickle Rick"	Anthony Chun	Jessica Gao	August 6, 2017	RAM-303	2.31[15]
Rick turns himself into a pickle to get out of attending a school-sanctioned family therapy, but Beth takes Rick's serum which would revert the transformation. Left alone, Rick eventually rolls into an open sewer drain, where he manages to manipulate the nervous systems of dead roaches and rats to build himself a mobile exoskeleton, with added weapons such as razors and drills. He unwittingly escapes into a foreign government agency. The guards try to kill Rick, under orders from the agency director, but Rick kills them all. In the process, Rick battles and ultimately befriends a prisoner named Jaguar. Near death and in need of the serum, Rick is forced to attend the therapy session, arriving towards the end. Dr. Wong gives her diagnosis, observing that Rick crafts relationships that punish emotions and vulnerability. On their way home, Rick apologizes to Beth for deceiving her and uses the serum to turn human again. Morty and Summer wish to continue seeing Dr. Wong, but Rick and Beth ignore them.

Post-credits scene: Jaguar saves Rick and Morty from being killed in an elaborate piano death machine by a villain named "Concerto".

Season 3, Episode 4: "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender"	Bryan Newton	Sarah Carbiener & Erica Rosbe	August 13, 2017	RAM-304	2.66[16]
At Morty's insistence, Rick agrees to meet again with the Vindicators, a group of intergalactic superheroes, to fight their archnemesis, Worldender. Rick cannot hide his disdain for the superheroes, while Morty is thrilled. The next morning, the Vindicators enter Worldender's base. They find that, while Rick was blackout drunk the previous night, he killed Worldender and set up a variety of puzzles that the Vindicators must solve to survive. They start arguing and kill one another, while Morty solves all the puzzles. After all puzzles are solved, the only ones left alive are Rick, Morty, and Supernova, who is a member of the Vindicators. Supernova tries to kill Rick and Morty. Before she can do so, the three of them are transported to a party that Rick also set up while blackout drunk, and she escapes.

Post-credits scene: Gearhead tries to use a Vindicators vest to impress some teen girls, but when an alien terrorist attack strikes, he flees then trips and falls, breaking into pieces.

Season 3, Episode 5: "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy"	Juan Meza-León	Ryan Ridley	August 20, 2017	RAM-305	2.29[17]
At Morty's request, Rick takes Jerry on an adventure to bolster Jerry's self-esteem. They visit an alien resort where Jerry encounters Risotto Groupon, an alien who blames Rick for his kingdom being usurped. Risotto enlists Jerry in a plot to kill Rick, but the attempt fails and Rick deduces Jerry's involvement, sparking a monologue of him accusing Jerry of deliberately acting helpless to guilt others into helping him. After Rick kills Risotto, he softens his attitude towards Jerry, but refuses to let him return to the family. Meanwhile, Summer's boyfriend Ethan leaves her for a larger-breasted girlfriend, and Summer attempts to enlarge her own breasts using one of Rick's devices. Her aim is off, and her and Beth's attempts to fix things only cause her to be turned inside out and grow into a giant. Beth is tricked into releasing three tiny technical support workers that were trapped inside the machine. Summer disappears to the campsite she and Ethan were supposed to go, still inside out. Beth turns herself inside out and talks to Summer, reconciling. Once Morty figures out how the machine works, he restores Summer's size and spitefully uses it to deform Ethan.

Post-credits scene: The three tiny workers are enjoying their retirement. As a deformed Ethan walks by, one of them is snatched by an eagle.

Season 3, Episode 6: "Rest and Ricklaxation"	Anthony Chun	Tom Kauffman	August 27, 2017	RAM-306	2.47[18]
After a traumatic six-day adventure, Rick and Morty decide to spend some time at an alien spa, where they use a machine that extracts a person's negative personality traits. However, unbeknownst to them, those traits are transposed into toxic physical counterparts, characterized by Rick's arrogance and Morty's self-loathing. The Clean Rick becomes more considerate, and Clean Morty's confidence soars, which allows him to start dating girls. Swearing revenge on Clean Rick, Toxic Rick takes Toxic Morty, breaks out of the machine, and uses a moonlight tower to remake the whole Earth into a toxic version of itself. Clean Rick reverts the situation by poisoning Toxic Morty, correctly deducing that the true Rick considered his compassion for Morty a weakness, meaning Toxic Rick has inherited that trait. Toxic Rick angrily merges with Clean Rick to save Toxic Morty, bringing back the true Rick. Clean Morty avoids merging back with his toxic counterpart and goes on to live a life as a stockbroker in New York City. Rick tracks him down with Jessica's help and restores order by re-injecting Toxic Morty back into Clean Morty.

Post-credits scene: A tour of the same moonlight tower releases Stacy, one of the girls Morty dated in the episode, who had been inadvertently trapped inside the toxin machine.

Season 3, Episode 7: "The Ricklantis Mixup"[c]	Dominic Polcino	Dan Guterman & Ryan Ridley	September 10, 2017	RAM-307	2.38[20]
As Rick and Morty adventure to Atlantis, the episode shifts focus towards the Citadel, a secret society populated by numerous versions of Ricks and Mortys. There, a group of Mortys journey to a portal to have their wishes granted; a novice police officer Rick starts working with a veteran police Morty to take down drug dealers; a worker Rick revolts at a wafer factory, where the key ingredient is extracted from a Rick hooked up to a machine to re-experience his best memories; and an election is held for the new president of the Citadel. Despite being the underdog, the Morty Party candidate manages to secure the presidency. When his campaign manager receives information that the new president is in fact Evil Morty from the first-season episode "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind", he attempts to assassinate Candidate Morty but fails. Once he assumes office, President Morty orders the execution of a shadow council of Ricks and anybody else he considers a potential threat to his rule.

Post-credits scene: Rick and Morty return home from Atlantis, satisfied with their trip. Morty wonders what happened at the Citadel, but Rick tells him it will likely have no effect on their lives.

Season 3, Episode 8: "Morty's Mind Blowers"	Bryan Newton	Mike McMahan, James Siciliano, Ryan Ridley, Dan Guterman, Justin Roiland & Dan Harmon	September 17, 2017	RAM-309	2.51[21]
After Morty requests to have a traumatic memory deleted, Rick reveals a room where he has been storing a number of memories he has removed from Morty's mind. As it turns out, besides the memories that Morty did not want to keep from their adventures, the room also contains memories in which Rick was made to look foolish, so he had them forcibly removed from Morty. This revelation prompts a fight, during which Rick and Morty have their memories accidentally erased. Morty scours the memories around him to replace the ones he lost, but he is displeased with the truth he finds, and convinces Rick that they should kill themselves. Summer enters the room moments before they committed suicide. At this point, it is revealed that Rick has a contingency plan should this happen. Following written instructions, Summer tranquilizes Rick and Morty, restores their memories, and drags them to the living room. Rick and Morty wake up on the couch, believing that they slept through an entire "Interdimensional Cable" episode.

Post-credits scene: Jerry discovers a box labeled "Jerry's Mind Blowers", which contains a memory of him being accidentally responsible for the death of an alien.

Season 3, Episode 9: "The ABC's of Beth"	Juan Meza-León	Mike McMahan	September 24, 2017	RAM-308	2.49[22]
Rick and Beth enter Froopyland, a fantasy world created by Rick for young Beth. Their goal is to recover Tommy, Beth's childhood friend who has been trapped in Froopyland, and prevent the execution of his father, who is being falsely accused of eating him. Tommy, who has survived all these years by resorting to bestiality, incest and cannibalism, refuses to return to the real world. Rick and Beth manage to save his father's life by creating a clone of Tommy. Back at home, Beth is presented with the option of having a replacement clone of her created, so that she will be free to travel the world. Meanwhile, Jerry dates an alien hunter named Kiara, to Morty and Summer's dismay. When he decides to get out of the relationship, Kiara is enraged and tries to kill the kids, whom she holds responsible. The situation is resolved following the revelation that Kiara was using Jerry to get over her previous boyfriend, much like Jerry was doing with her.

Post-credits scene: Jerry's answering machine plays messages warning him that Kiara's boyfriend is coming to kill him, and Rick saying that he has killed Kiara's boyfriend, but also had sex with her.

Season 3, Episode 10: "The Rickchurian Mortydate"	Anthony Chun	Dan Harmon	October 1, 2017	RAM-310	2.60[23]
The President calls on Rick and Morty to defeat a monster in the tunnels underneath the White House, which they do with little effort. Annoyed that he constantly calls on them without any gratitude, they go back home to play Minecraft, with the President quickly finding out. The resulting argument leads to a battle of egos that culminates in a fight in the White House between Rick and the President's security. Meanwhile, fearing she might be a clone made by Rick, Beth reunites with Jerry to figure out the truth. Shortly after, the entire family gets together to hide from Rick, but he tracks them down. Rick eventually submits to Jerry once again being a family member. Rick ends his conflict with the President by pretending to be Fly Fishing Rick, a Rick from a different reality, and calling a truce. The episode ends with the family happy to be together again, except for Rick who is disappointed about losing his dominant position.

Post-credits scene: Mr. Poopybutthole apologizes for not appearing in Season 3, but he has gotten married and had a son. He ends the scene by saying that it will be a long wait until season 4.
